Our next task is to secure blocks in a chain.
We plan to utilize the SHA256 algorithm to produce the hash value for a block data.
There are several libraries available to us from third parties for our Node.js project.
For this project, we plan to utilize crypto-js.
Let's exit our node environment and install crypto-js using Node Package Manager.
To exit the node environment,
type in period and then exit.
Let's restructure just to verify that we have
our files available to us, more specifically, package.json.
Earlier in this lesson,
we've displayed initializing the project
utilizing Node Package Manager which created the package.json.
We want to utilize the save flag to save crypto- js as a dependency for our project.
Let's perform that now.
The response from Node Package Manager is providing a couple of warnings.
The first warning is that,
there's no description for a project.
The next, is that our project is missing a repository film.
We can investigate this further by opening our package.json file.
Let's go ahead and do that. When we open the package.json file,
you'll notice that we have a new field called dependencies.
Within dependencies, we have crypto-js that's been recorded for us.
Great. Now, we have crypto-js library available for us within our project.
Let's go ahead and navigate back to the Node environment.
Type in node, let's close the package.json file.
Within our simple chain.js,
let's navigate to the top of our file.
We need to configure a constant variable called SHA-256.
To do that, we'll type in const which stands for constant.
We'll call it SHA256,
and will require crypto-js library referencing to the SHA256 algorithm.
Within our block class,
let's modify our addBlock function to include the generation of our BlockHash.
We need to call our newBlock and we're going to reference to our hash value.
Next, we're going to go ahead and call
the SHA256 library and then we're going to pass it our value, construct our hash.
To do this, SHA256 requires a string of data.
So, we're going to go ahead and utilize JSON,
and we're going to stringify the object.
That object is going to be our newBlock.
Then, what we want to do,
is take that response and turn it into a string.
Next, we need to configure a reference to the previous Block.
The previous Block might not exist which is why we need to construct
a conditional statement to check if the chain contains data.
Above our newBlock hash,
let's go ahead and establish our conditional statement.
If this chain length is greater than zero,
we need a reference to
our newBlock object and we're going to go to the previous BlockHash.
This.chain, and let's get the previous object in the chain.
We're going to go ahead and put minus one because
the array length starts off at one versus zero.
So, we're going to go ahead and subtract one,
so it can start off at zero.
Now, we're going to reference to that object's Hash.
Now, that we have generation of our BlockHash with a reference to the previous BlockHash,
it's time to configure our Genesis Block and make
sure that it's always included at the beginning of the array.
To do this, we will utilize our Blockchain Class constructor.
Underneath our chain array,
let's go ahead and create a new Genesis block.
We're going to type in this.addBlock.
To utilize our addBlock function,
we're going to go ahead and create a newBock and within that newBlock,
we want to add some data that references to our Genesis Block.
Let's call this, "First block in the chain",
and then we'll make sure that we reference this as the Genesis Block.
Excellent. This is a great time to test our code.
Within our command prompt,
let's go ahead and make sure to test code within our Node environment.
Because we exited out of our Node environment,
and then we re-entered the Node environment,
we need to make sure that we paste the entire code of our file.
Perfect. Now, it's time to test.
We need to go ahead and create a Blockchain variable and instantiate our Blockchain.
Now, let's test by adding a new Block.
Let's view the contents of our Blockchain array.
In our previous BlockHash,
it's reporting an error and it looks like that I neglected [inaudible] provide camelcase values.
Looking at our constructor,
it looks like that that's actually an easy fix.
Since we notice an error during testing,
let's go ahead and exit out of our Node environment,
copy our code, re-enter a Node environment and paste it in.
To exit, we type ".
exit". Then, to re-enter,
we just type in node.
Within our script file, we'll "Select,
All", "Copy", and we'll "Paste" that in.
Excellent.
Let's test.
As you can tell,
testing provides great value as you're developing your project,
because errors are going to happen.
So, let's go ahead and make corrections once when they're discovered.
Excellent. We corrected the issue with the camelcase value for our previous block.
Our Blockchain has the first Genesis Block with the unique hash value.
There is no previous BlockHash, therefore it's empty.
Our next block on the chain has
a unique hash value and it's referencing to the previous BlockHash,
which is our Genesis Block.
Let's go ahead and add another block to the chain to verify that
the chain is staying consistent with the way that is linking between hashes.
We have our Genesis Block,
our next block, and our most recent block.
Each block is taking the hash value from the previous block.
To recap, we configured the SHA256 algorithm utilizing crypto-js library,
that has been included as a constant variable at the top of our simple chain.js file.
Within our Blockchain class,
we modified our constructor to include the new Genesis Block.
Next, we modified the addBlock function.
We made sure to include a conditional statement.
Next, we go ahead and define our hash value for the block by taking the data,
converting it into a string and then passing
the response as a string to our block's hash.
Then, we add the block to the chain.